## Datadekho (DATA VISUALIZATION APPLICATION):-

In the current landscape of technological advancements, organizations wield the power to make data-driven decisions and formulate strategic plans and forecasts. However, a plethora of business users find themselves pressed for time, hindering their ability to delve into data analysis and extract meaningful insights. Bridging the gap between the raw output generated by analytical tools and its practical interpretation poses a challenge. Moreover, constructing valuable business insights demands a commendable domain knowledge, a skill not possessed by every user.
To address these issues, we envision creating a system capable of weaving a narrative from a given data snapshot. This system aims to automate the storytelling process, leveraging data, contextual information, and personal preferences. By doing so, it not only streamlines tool utilization but also serves as a guide for users, furnishing them with data-driven intelligence crucial for making informed business decisions. The overarching objective is to drive outcomes and enhance overall effectiveness in decision-making processes.

## Tool Description:-


 " Datadekho" stands as a cutting-edge AI tool designed to transform raw data sets into meaningful insights for business users. Leveraging advanced artificial intelligence, this tool adeptly identifies patterns within the data, interprets the results, and crafts an output story tailored to the context. What sets Datadekho apart is its proactive approach to data analysis, taking the initiative to generate smart feeds using natural language generation techniques. This streamlines the user experience, enabling business users to effortlessly comprehend and consume insights with minimal effort. Notably, Datadekho caters to a broad audience, prioritizing simplicity and ease of use. The application has been thoughtfully crafted with the needs of elementary users in mind, ensuring accessibility and comprehension. This implementation, based on Class-based pages, enhances the tool's flexibility and scalability, offering a robust framework for diverse analytical scenarios. As a result, Datadekho stands as a user-friendly and powerful solution, bridging the gap between complex data analytics and actionable business intelligence.

## Features:- 

This tool possesses the capability to:

1. Transform Data into Interactive Narratives: It converts raw data and analytics outputs into engaging and interactive data stories, offering a dynamic representation of the information.

2. Uncover Deep Insights and Patterns: Datadekho goes beyond surface-level analysis, delving into data to unearth profound insights, identify patterns, and contribute valuable information to aid in informed
                                       business decisions.

3. Create Personalized Profiles: The tool constructs personalized profiles for users, encapsulating metadata that outlines specific areas of interest. This ensures that the generated insights align with the
                                 individual preferences of each user.

4. Generate User-Friendly Reports: Datadekho produces reports that are not only comprehensive but also catered to business users. The reports feature an intuitive and interactive interface, simplifying the
                                   understanding of complex data and facilitating efficient decision-making processes.



## 📝 Module-Wise Description


_📌 **Data Upload**_ <br/>

This module deals with the data upload. It can take csv and excel files. As soon as the data is uploaded, it creates a copy of the data to ensure that we don't have to read the data multiple times. It also saves the columns and their data types along with displaying them for the user. This is used to upload and save the data and it's column types which will be further needed at a later stage. 

_📌 **Change Metadata**_ <br/>

Once the column types are saved in the metadata, we need to give the user the option to change the type. This is to ensure that the automatic column tagging can be overridden if the user wishes. For example a binary column with 0 and 1s can be tagged as numerical and the user might have to correct it. The three data types available are:

* Numerical 
* Categorical 
* Object

The correction happens immediately and is saved at that moment. 

_📌 **Machine Learning**_ <br/>

This section automates the process of machine learning by giving the user the option to select X and y variables and letting us do everything else. The user can specify which columns they need for machine learning and then select the type of process - regression and classficiation. The application selects multiple models and saves the best one as a binary `.sav` file to be used in the future for inferencing. The accuracy or R2 score is shown right then and there with the model running in the background.  

## Technology Stack 

1. Python 
2. Streamlit 
3. Pandas
4. Scikit-Learn
5. Seaborn

# How to Run 

- Clone the repository
- Run Streamlit
  
```
$ streamlit run app.py
```
